Ansible Topics:

Ansible is simple open source IT engine which automates application deployment, intra service orchestration, 
cloud provisioning and many other IT tools.

Ansible is easy to deploy because it does not use any agents or custom security infrastructure.

Ansible uses playbook to describe automation jobs, and playbook uses very simple language i.e. YAML
The picture given below shows the working of Ansible.

Ansible works by connecting to your nodes and pushing out small programs, called "Ansible modules" to them. 
Ansible then executes these modules (over SSH by default), and removes them when finished. 

Your library of modules can reside on any machine, and there are no servers, daemons, or databases required.

YAML Language:
Ansible uses YAML syntax for expressing Ansible playbooks. This chapter provides an overview of YAML. 
Ansible uses YAML because it is very easy for humans to understand, read and write when compared to other data formats like XML and JSON.

Every YAML file optionally starts with “---” and ends with “...”.
Understanding YAML:

key-value pair
YAML uses simple key-value pair to represent the data. 
The dictionary is represented in key: value pair.

Note − There should be space between : and value.

Ex:
--- #Optional YAML start syntax 
james: 
   name: james john 
   rollNo: 34 
   div: B 
   sex: male 
… #Optional YAML end syntax 

Represents a list:
---
countries:  
   - America 
   - China 
   - Canada 
   - Iceland 
…

Ansible - Ad hoc Commands:

Ad hoc commands are commands which can be run individually to perform quick functions. These commands need not be performed later.

For example, you have to reboot all your company servers. For this, you will run the Adhoc commands from ‘/usr/bin/ansible’.
These ad-hoc commands are not used for configuration management and deployment, because these commands are of one time usage.
ansible-playbook is used for configuration management and deployment.

Ansible Playbooks:

Playbooks are the files where Ansible code is written. Playbooks are written in YAML format. 

YAML stands for Yet Another Markup Language. Playbooks are one of the core features of Ansible and tell Ansible what to execute. 
They are like a to-do list for Ansible that contains a list of tasks.

Playbooks contain the steps which the user wants to execute on a particular machine. Playbooks are run sequentially. 
Playbooks are the building blocks for all the use cases of Ansible.

Playbook Structure:

Each playbook is an aggregation of one or more plays in it. Playbooks are structured using Plays. 
There can be more than one play inside a playbook.
1.start with --- and end with …
2.to write the comments with #
3.members of the list begin with –
4.key: value pairs

          <key>: <values>


Simple Playbook:
 ---
-	Name: First playbook pins test
Hosts: servers
Tasks:
-Name: ping test
  ping  
 …


Ansible Roles:

Roles provide a framework for fully independent, or interdependent collections of variables, tasks, files, templates, and modules.

In Ansible, the role is the primary mechanism for breaking a playbook into multiple files. 
This simplifies writing complex playbooks, and it makes them easier to reuse. 

The breaking of playbook allows you to logically break the playbook into reusable components.



